<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />
<wiki:comment>
#Describes the coding standards such as indentation, order of imports, templates, etc
</wiki:comment>

= To set up Eclipse (Helios, Galileo and Ganymede) =
It is recommended that you use to Eclipse Helios or Galileo (this section has been tested for Helios and Galileo - some small differences will be encountered). You must install Eclipse and a compatible Java JDK prior to beginning this configuration. Also you need to obtain a set of configuration files which are located in the repository source. 

*You need to add "process-resources" goal to the Window / Preferences / Maven / Goals to run on project Import. *
Then the generated resources (by Maven) will be added on classpath of eclipse.


 == Plugins ==
 * Google Plugin for Eclipse [http://code.google.com/intl/cs-CZ/appengine/docs/java/tools/eclipse.html GPE]
 * [http://www.sonatype.org/m2eclipse m2eclipse]

 == Path of the configuration files: ==
{{{
trunk/MEditor/resources/dev/eclipse
}}}

 == Use the Eclipse Menu: Window -> Preferences -> Java -> Code Style ==
Under the top-level Code Style section: 
||[http://meta-editor.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/CleanUp.png http://meta-editor.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/CleanUp_sm.png] || [http://meta-editor.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/Templates.png http://meta-editor.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/Templates_sm.png] ||
|| [http://meta-editor.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/Formatter.png http://meta-editor.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/Formatter_sm.png] || [http://meta-editor.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/Imports.png http://meta-editor.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/Imports_sm.png] ||

 # Under the Clean-up section import meditor-cleanup.xml and press Apply
 # Under the Code Templates section import meditor-codetemplates.xml, check the "Automatically add comments for new methods and types" checkbox and press Apply
 # Also under the Code Templates section in Comments -> Types edit Types to replace "Firstname Lastname" with your own name and press Apply
 # Under the Formatter section import meditor-formatter.xml and press Apply
 # Under the Organize Imports section import meditor.importorder and press Apply
 == Use the Eclipse Menu: Window -> Preferences -> Java -> Editor -> Save Actions ==

 # Select "Perform the selected actions on save"
 # Make sure "Additional Actions" is selected
 # Click "Configure...", and go to the "Code Organizing" tab, and make sure "Remove trailing whitespace" and "All lines" are selected

|| [http://meta-editor.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/Save.png http://meta-editor.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/Save_sm.png] || [http://meta-editor.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/AdditionalSaveActions.png http://meta-editor.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/AdditionalSaveActions_sm.png] ||

= Optional Settings =
Meditor use code generation tools for generating Java classes. Without these, Eclipse will complain loudly. There are problems with refreshing in Eclipse that make generated code a source of some difficulties.
== Use the Eclipse Menu: Window -> Preferences -> Team -> Ignored Resources ==

Add
|| target || .gwt || generated ||
|| .settings || .classpath ||.project ||

...and press the Apply button.

[http://meta-editor.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/Ignore.png http://meta-editor.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/Ignore_sm.png]

<g:plusone size="medium"></g:plusone>